>> Erik Reinert: So one of the things
that's nice about the Docker CLI
is there's a lot of really cool
things you can do with it.
For example, one of the things you
can do is you can give it, like,
formatting against log
output that you want.
So if I wanted to see how big
my images were in general,
I could run that command and
you'll see here that.
Wow, the latest image is 400 megabytes,
right?
That's kind of a big image.
Can anyone tell me why
this is such a big image?
>> Speaker 2: It's got a lot
of packages you don't use.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep,
if we look at the Docker file, though,
what is one thing in particular that
might make this big by default?
>> Speaker 2: The public image.
>> Erik Reinert: The public image,
exactly, yeah.
We're using a language image, right?
So, we're using a Golang image.
Means that Golang is
gonna be installed in it.
All the tools for Golang,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
That's just going to make
it heavier by default.
Right?
So what would be better to use?
Can anyone guess what might
be a better image to use?
And I will note, it's already in the tag.
It's just not the appropriate one.
>> Speaker 2: Base Alpine.
>> Erik Reinert: Base Alpine,
yeah, exactly.
So what's kind of neat is Golang and
all these other images out
there use base images, right?
So, you'll notice that my Golang image
has 12 or 1.24.2 dash Alpine, right?
That means that underneath the Golang
image, there's an Alpine image.
So realistically, I should be able to
build everything in the Golang image and
then just move those outputs
to a much smaller image.
And that's exactly what we want to do.
That's the next step
of what we want to do.
So the first thing we're going to do is
we're going to update the Docker file by
including what we're missing,
which is our Goose installer.
Like I said, we want to run
Goose in the container, right?
So we need to actually
add it to the container.
And then the next thing we're going to
do is we're going to update this copy
down here to be a little
bit more granular, right?
We don't need to necessarily copy,
like static,
which has a whole bunch of files in it,
and main Js and templates.
And, you know,
we don't have to copy all of that at once.
What we really want to do is just say,
okay, copy all of our go code.
Just the go code.
That's all we really care about for
this, right?
So, we're saying main go and
then we're gonna do dot.
This will make it so that when I copy,
I'm only going to copy the main go and
then I'm going to build off of that.
Now what's cool about this is now
if I make template changes or
anything like that, I won't have to like,
if I make a JavaScript change, I shouldn't
have to rebuild my go code, right?
And so, this makes it even faster
because now I don't have to worry about
those changes impacting my build times and
performance and stuff like that.
Now the next thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna add what you are saying,
which is the rest of the big changes.
So underneath this line here under
the main, we're gonna do two things.
We're actually gonna delete
the existing lines underneath it and
then I'm going to add a whole
new what is called stage.
So in a Docker file, you can do
the normal kind of traditional thing,
which is you can create one
stage which does everything.
And that's what this is right here.
But if you wanna make it so it builds
multiple images or tries multiple things,
you can do them in what are called stages.
The first thing we'll do is at the very
top we're going to say as build.
Because now we're making this a stage.
This isn't the final output,
it's just a stage that we're going to use.
Then if we go down to the bottom,
you'll see that I can add
the rest of my second stage.
You'll see that I have another from
here underneath my first stage,
meaning that I'm creating
a whole new stage.
Then I'm doing a couple of things, like
setting an environment variable to set
the version of Dockerize
that I want to download.
Don't worry, I'll show you
what Dockerize is in a second.
I install it, right?
I then go into my.
I go into app again.
You'll notice up here we go into app,
but down here we go into app as well.
Can anyone guess why?
Why do I have to go into app twice?
>> Speaker 2: It's a separate image.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah,
it's a brand new image.
It's an entirely new stage.
So we have to.
Anything that you did in the previous
stage that you want to make sure is
replicated, you may have to re.
Add to get back to that state, right?
So we go into app and
then what we do is we say, hey,
I don't want you to copy from
my source code like down here.
I want you to actually
copy from the build stage.
What's cool about this
is now when we built
our Go application up here,
I can now use it down here.
And you'll notice that it is in app or
app main.
That's because I'm downloading the the
path from a previous build stage or
the output from a binary in the previous
build stage into this build stage.
>> Speaker 2: You still need the Golang
image first because you need the GO
compiler to build those.
>> Erik Reinert: Exactly.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, we need to compile it with Go, but
we don't want to actually keep that for
our production image.
We just want to make sure that we
basically we want to build it in
a little environment and
then take those two binaries and go, okay,
let's put you into this nice clean and
simple environment.
And so that's what we're doing.
We copy the main build and
then we also copy Goose.
Now the reason why we copy Goose is
because Goose has to be compiled and
installed with Go as well.
There's no other real easy way
to use Goose, unfortunately.
So we use the Go image to not just compile
our application, but we actually use it to
compile and install Goose, which we then
copy that binary into our final image.
Right, then we add our migrations,
our static directory, our templates,
we add our expose 8080 and
then we set up our command as before.
Right, so now what I'm gonna do
really fast is just double check,
make sure we are all good.
I think we are cool.
Okay, I'm going to save this.
Then what I'm going to do really quickly
is I'm going to go back to the make file
because I need to make a small change and
it's right in the Build Image section.
Basically right now,
if I was to build this.
Let's just do it.
Make Build Image.
You'll notice that these
are building simultaneously.
Stage 2 and Stage 1 are basically
building right on top of each other.
So you'll see that right now the build
stage is currently installing GOs.
Then we're waiting because we've already
completed the stages that we could in
the second stage.
This is how BuildX and
Docker works with stages.
It will do as much as it can in one of
the stages before it hits a dependency of
another stage, and then it'll just wait.
The downside to this though, is because
I didn't tell it which stage I want
it to specifically build for this image,
it's going to take both stages,
compile it into one image, and
it's going to be even bigger.
That's because I didn't tell
it separate the images.
I just told it I want two build stages and
I want you to glue those together.
Now if I do image,
let's see, where's format?
Yeah, now you'll see it's actually,
no, this one's 90 megabits.
But actually, it did it exactly the way
that I wanted it to, nevermind.
I guess maybe that's, that's kind of what
we wanted, but it still didn't give us
the exact image that we wanted because
again, we built them together, basically.
So what I want to do is I want
to go to the make file and
I want to build these
separately just to be sure.
So what I'm going to do is
I'm going to delete this and
then I'm just going to say, hey, do both.
So first use BuildX to
target the build stage and
focus on just doing that first,
and then take the cache
from that stage and
rerun the actual build itself.
What happens is this gets built into an
entirely separate image so that no cache
or anything like that is stor stored in
the image that we want to actually deploy.
Then the second build command will make
sure that we still use the cache from that
previously built image, so
we don't have to repeat anything.
But then it'll make sure that it only
builds and uses the latest stage.
Now if I do make build image,
you see that they run in sequence and
then if I do format, yeah,
you'll still see that it was separated,
but you'll also see.
Yeah, there you go.
You'll see that my build image
is actually 1.59 gigs, right?
So that's how much cache I could have
potentially pushed up if I hadn't made
sure that those two images were
explicitly separate, right?
Another thing that's really nice about
this though is that if you want to have
build cache, then you just build it as
a separate image, push it up to the cloud,
and now others can use that build
cache if you want to as well, right?
So having these as two separate images in
general just works nice because it means
that there's flexibility with
like where this exists and
where this exists, but
they are completely separate.
And so, yeah,
now we've created two images.
We've created our build image,
which is again 1.59 gigs, and
then our final image,
which is 90 megabytes,
which is obviously a lot smaller than
the 381 megabytes that we had before.
>> Speaker 2: What all is getting cached?
>> Erik Reinert: When we say
cache in the Docker sense,
we mean every layer that
took to build that image.
If I go ahead and
I open up the Docker file really quickly,
if I don't make a single
change to the image and
then I push that image up and
then I tell another dev, hey,
if you want to use my build cache,
you just pull down my image, right?
Then they'll get the entire build cache.
They'll get everything.
But if they say, for example,
they made a change in migrations or
static or templates, then they would
get all of the stuff before that.
Does that make sense?
So, if they made a change in here and
they didn't, they changed like.
Well, basically they didn't change
anything, but anything outside of the Go
files, then this would never get built and
they would have this 1.5 gigabyte
image always available and
ready to them if they needed.
This also makes pipelines go faster.
So if you build a build image and
then you want to make it so
that you don't have to rebuild that image,
but
you want to use it in CI because
it has all of your tools in it.
Think about it like that.
If you're running CI and you need to
install all the tools we just did, you'd
probably create steps to install this,
install this, install that, install that.
Where I work, we don't do that.
Where I work, we use the build
image to run all of the stuff.
So we build the image,
we push it up to the registry, and
then when we run a CI job,
we just pull that image down and
we run everything through the image so
that our tooling is portable.
So that's another valuable way of pushing
it up, caching it, pulling it down,
running all the things, you need to push
it back up, sort of force and so on.